---
author: anant
comments: true
date: 2006-06-01 08:45:43+00:00
layout: post
slug: rest-it-is
title: REST it is!
wordpress_id: 7
---

Okay so it's decided. We're going the REST way for the repodoc web service.
My plan is to begin writing a schema for the XML document that the client
must get in response to a validation request to the service. This should be
useful for those who would want to write a client for this web service in the
future.

As a matter of fact, I am also thinking of writing a sample client for the
web service, just a small collection of web pages that will allow you to
upload a GuideXML document and validate it. Kind of like the XHTML and CSS
validation that W3C offers. That way, we won't have to wait until the actual
editor is ready to play around with the service.

On another note, I filed a
[bug](http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=135096) with Gentoo
Infrastructure on [bugzilla](http://bugs.gentoo.org/), as requested by Lance,
who has kindly volunteered to arrange infrastructure for Gentoo SoC students.
Lance has requested [OSUOSL](http://osuosl.org/) to
create Xen instances for all Gentoo SoC projects that require it. OSUOSL is
contemplating on opening a new Xen server to cater to all the SoC-related
infrastructure requests that they've been receiving from the community.

I'll planning to install PHP 5.1.4 on the instance, in addition to recreating
a Gentoo CVS structure to get repodoc up and running. It'll be really cool to
work on a virtual server, I've never done that before! Looking forward to a
wonderful experience on the cool new box...
