---
author: anant
comments: true
date: 2006-02-22 19:31:25-07:00
layout: post
slug: another-day-at-and-indian-college
title: Another day at an Indian College
wordpress_id: 53
---

Today I had the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to attend a meeting with the
director of my college to present the CMS solution for our institute that we
had been working on for the past 6 months. It was a wonderful experience and
it opened my eyes to what was actually happening "in the boardroom" all this
while.

The meeting started off with everybody introducing themselves, and then
proceeded with the actual presentation. At first I thought that the director
was only giving part of his attention, but surprisingly, he had carefully
analysed every point presented and raised his very valid concerns at the end
of the presentation! Experience does matter; this was my first such meeting,
but he would have attended thousands of such presentations.

Some of his questions were however, outdated. He was still concerned about
security: "How safe is the system against hackers?". How is one supposed to
convince someone in non-technical terms how secure a system is? No system is
foolproof, everyone knows that. We have to take the plunge, and he simply has
to trust us and believe that we've taken a lot of precautions against any
unwary event.

Also he didn't quite digest the idea of a CMS: "Anyone can change the content
of the website?", well, we explained that it was not quite "anyone", but only
people authorised to do so, such as the heads of departments. He still
insisted on a "webmaster", a final authority through which all changes have
to approved and only then published to the main website. This defeats the
purpose of a CMS itself and the concept of distribution of work; here the
webmaster will again be burdened with the task of maintaining an institute's
website and approving every single change or addition of notices: however big
or small they may be.

And on the other end we have Wikipedia flourishing!

Probably things might not change until the next generation take up important
administrative positions, people who are more open to solutions that
technology can offer. I still have professors in my college who are not
entirely convinced that computers indeed offer better and efficient solutions
to existing problems and would rather do things the "Good old way".

But of course, I still remember of how my own parents were apprehensive of
using the credit card online a few years back. Today, my mother buys even the
grocery online!

I guess time heals all!

That being said, the college is in good hands, the hands of an experienced
person who deals issues with caution. Right in his own manner.
